# Handling_postgres_using_python_connection
In this section we will use python to connect to one of the popular open source SQL database: Postgres. We will make the connection and write queries on python to create a new database and a table in this database. We will also add few rows from python and check the added rows using psycopg2 library in python.

In Data Engineering World there are multiple frameworks and tools which can be used to solve same problem in multiple ways. As a Data Engineer it is our responsibility to choose the right tool based on our business requirement, availability, security and also considering the best ROI strategy. Though we have advanced cloud technologies emerging, which can solve more and more complicated tasks with each counting day, it is also necessary to make decission of when to use what and why. Sometimes we may want to perform analysis on data which our personal computers can handle, and security is not a great issue considering the data is available for everyone on the internet. In such cases only our analytical results matter. For this case a Data Engineer can simply opt for python installed on system for coding and opensource databases to handel our data using SQL. Hence knowing how to make connections inorder to interact with databases using python can come really handy. The attached notebook is just a summary to perform such quick connections.

In this section I have used jupyter notebook on local machine and connected it to Postgres installed on the same machine using pyscopg2 library in python.
